# noticeboard
General place to store meeting notes and info

# TOC

- [February 2019 8th meeting](#february-2019-8th-meeting)
- [December 2018 7th meeting](#december-2018-7th-meeting)
- [October 2018 6th meeting](#october-2018-6th-meeting)
- [July 2018 5th meeting](#july-2018-5th-meeting)
- [June 2018 4th meeting](#june-2018-4th-meeting)
- [April 2018 3rd meeting](#april-2018-3rd-meeting)
- [March 2018 2nd meeting](#march-2018-2nd-meeting)
- [February 2018 First meeting](#february-2018-first-meeting)
- [XR books](#xr-books)
- [XR events](#xr-events)
- [Conferences](#conferences)

# February 2019 8th meeting

**Rishi** presented a summary of his research to date on **Binaural virtual auditory display for music content recommendation and navigation**. He took a tour through some of the issues, approaches and findings that he's encountered so far in developing an interactive environment founded principally on 3D audio. This included demonstration of a novel and computationally lightweight approach to rendering head-tracked binaural auditory scenes.

Rishi's presentation can be found [here](files/rishi_2019-02-06.pdf).

# December 2018 7th meeting

**Francesco** presented his PhD topic: **Sound and Haptics to Represent Motion in VR**. His proposed research aims to explore crossmodal mappings between sound and haptics, in particular vibrotactile feedback. These two stimuli will be used to test motion illusion (also called Vection) in Virtual Reality applications. In particular the aim is to analyse the user experience within virtual reality applications in terms of movement and different types of locomotion (e.g. linear, point-to-point, variable speed).

Francesco's presentation can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=14plkgD0hWTZXBds2zI-d9NzjvDWDXm27yJGsjw_foqk).

**Tom G** talked about **designing a study versus designing a game**, presenting the evolution of his system and method for testing models of listeners non-verbal responses. The talk highlighted the problems he encountered from using a game-like environment for his studies and the plans to overcome them in the future.

Tom's presentation can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nLk4OUKhSw_d39ssCripFL1R2OswbjR_VYfxRLirtWY).

We discussed the next VR equipment purchase, managed by Liang.

Finnaly, we voted on a new name for the group to represent our interest in VR, AR, and 3D audio. From now on we are the **Immersive Experiences working group**.

# October 2018 6th meeting

Vivek presented his first study design which focuses on modelling player experience in Augmented Reality Mobile Games. His study explores the relationship between a player's behaviour (measured through sensors data) in a game and the player's preferences to different level designs. Vivek's slides are [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h4L9BZjvKeIf4xsGG7V67CEipnGgCG9S6Ksk24Pslyw).

We also discussed the possibility to visit the Digital Catapult next month instead of a VR SIG meeting. TBC.

# July 2018 5th meeting

The slides are [here](https://www.doesnotexist.com/)

## Part A: Teleportation in VR

Discussion forwarded ideas for

+ Guidelines on using teleportation in social VR 
+ Alternate methods of teleporation using locomotion of avatar in the scene
+ When teleporting into each other in VR, features could be designed to allow preference of body-space similar to proxemics, you can decide how close people get.
+ how understanding the controllers change behaviour when using devices, faster cycles between teleport jumps

## Part B: Ethics and long-term effects

+ *Ethics*: Suggestion to start a page on the noticeboard repo collating discourses on long-term effects and ethical questions on the use of VR. 
+ *Reality blurring*: [Link to paper on exiting VR, from an experience design perspective](http://jarrodknibbe.com/files/DreamIsCollapsing.pdf)
+ *Harassment in VR*: and upcoming online event in High Fidelity challenging it by discussing inclusive behaviour
+ *Harassment in VR*: Negative effect of gamification making bad behaviour a fun thing, it is important to have **consequences** in online embodied interaction spaces.
+ *Identity*: Body image and ownership
+ *Reality blurring*: UCL Andrew Burn - Study of children not separating realities

## Part C: Digital Catapult augmentor meetup and other bits

+ Asymmetric VR - Bailenson study on everyone being in the front seat
+ Idea to explore zero-gravity social interaction in VR

# June 2018 4th meeting

## Tom G: Notes from Bailenson's talk at the digital catapult on 26.4.2018

The slides are [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16bUgMPL8-KaXsH1GqJicSz_0xGXj6-cEqSc17qSigWE/edit).

## Daniel: Using machine learning in unity

Main takeaways:

- [Accord](http://accord-framework.net/) is a .NET machine learning framework that you can easily integrate into unity.
- When building the unity project the content of the resources folder will be compiled into the project, not being available in the Resources folder. To bypass this problem use the lower level File.IO tools that are provided with c# and not the higher level CSV writer and reader. In other words, if you want to load a file that is not in the Resources folder when building the project (ie: generated in run time), you will need to load it using File.IO resources, not CsvReader or similar classes.
- AppleScript can save you a lot of headaches if you want to interact with another app in Mac (this is not related to ML but a useful tip i think).

## Leshao: Manipulating and logging transforms

The slides are [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1aA606QVwiD4FPDuqKLaui7ugWTEsQYW7).

# April 2018 3rd meeting

## Shiv and Angela: Update on project

The slides are [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AhRQKJ_ZRqJI9NUFLgMlIvrji_kTAulMJ0tkUXXU1A0/edit).

## Thomas Deacon: Creative coding in Unity for VR

Slides used available [here](http://simp.ly/publish/S1y8jp), link may break in time.

Key makeaway, think about what features you would like to be able to prototype easily and Tom will try to integrate them into [Klak](https://github.com/Adjuvant/Klak). Currently working on porting [toxiclibs](http://toxiclibs.org/) to C#, then will create wiring containers for Klak.

## Update about equipment and rooms

# March 2018 2nd meeting

[Here are the overview slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1D0csu2IQNT3SuiwCzUvVpvC3-WqLaK4yFOSNOp6MPqs)
and [the slides for Tom G's talk "Hacking networking solutions for common problems"](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1t0T5q8b-XaSCKQ2wC9g_IdqMdhBNCboh2re1eBAgbJU).

## VR equipment and development space updates

TLDR: We will get new equipment soon, and have a space for VR development. Until we have a clear procedure for booking the VR dev space talk with Tom G.

See the overview slides for more details.

## Possible plans for future meetings

- Tom D: Crowdsource Unity XR workshop contents from people with current and previous experience
- Emily: Procedural content generation with WebGL.

## Development workspace TODOs

- Get access to the human interaction lab for the VR people.
- Connect PCs to the network. A ethernet connected router can connect up to 4 PCs. One PC (the one that Tom G is using at the moment) have WiFi.
- Setup a new calendar to book the VR development desks. A calendar for booking the room for experiments [already exists](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=fm79rp7t9pshovrqlf5esfjvno%40group.calendar.google.com). Contact Daniel G / Sophie S to be added.
- Create a booking instructions page here on github.
- Organize the room to accommodate more people (move trash out, bring desks and new VR equipment in). Tom G is responsible for it.

# February 2018 First meeting

[Here are the slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1NTPZCPLHcQTjz8u_o3n9lVqX_WWQ9SZ_CYSEcLv29To)

## Equipment

A purchase request for 3 more Vive based VR setups will be sent in the next few days. It will allow more people to develop and run experiments at the same time.

## Development workspace

Currently ~8 MAT PhDs use VR for their studies. They are scattered around the engineering and the CS buildings, causing VR development to be slow and problematic:

- We need to move the equipment around and setup it every time, even for minor tasks.
- At least 3 of us work on multiparty projects, and move even more resources around, usually for short periods of time during development.
- Students that use room scale VR (physically moving around the room with the headset) bump into their peers in the office, who are not VR people, making the office less comfortable to work in.

To solve this issues we would like to get a space of 4 desks, together, dedicated for VR development. PCs won’t move around anymore, and testing multiparty scenarios will require a few minutes help from a nearby colleague. Also as we all do VR development we won’t interrupt unrelated students when testing room scale scenarios.
Because most of the MAT VR people belong to the CogSci group we are checking the possibility to get these 4 desks in the new CS400 open space, plus, ideally, 4 more nearby desks so all of the 8 students will sit together, so swapping places will be easy.

## Expectations/plans for future meetings and the group in general

- Angela: It’s hard to keep up to date in the field. Tom G: To solve that people need to go out and come with news to share.
- Consider arranging a visit to the digital catapult. They might have interesting things to showcase.
- Shivani and Tom D: It might be useful to talk about our WIP projects.
- We can discuss problems we find, hoping that they are common and someone already solved them.
- A VR workshop by Tom D.
- Shivani might talk about a 360 film she is working on.

## Group admin and communication
To keep the admin low we will start with this google doc and monthly invitations through the residents@lists.eecs.qmul.ac.uk list.

Suggested alternatives:

- groups.io
- Github Wiki
- Slack (an existing channel)

# XR books

After asking for them, the following books are being bought, should arrive in a month or so. Unitl end of April 2018 to ask for more! Turkle is already in the library:

- Jerald (2015) The VR Book: Human-Centered Design for Virtual Reality
- Turkle (2013) Alone Together; Why we Expect more from Technology and Less from Each Other
- Rose (2012) The art of immersion: how the digital generation is remaking Hollywood, Madison Avenue, and the way we tell stories
- Bolter et al. (2003) Windows and Mirrors: Interaction Design, Digital Art, and the Myth of Transparency
- Bailenson (2018) Experience on Demand: What Virtual Reality Is, How It Works, and What It Can Do

# XR Events

+ [VR Diversity Initiative at Plexal (workshop)](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf5wxzgb12YXCpZh9HUDU5Drm7EJMRiM1fkVu8S8WvK-BHX3Q/viewform), 8 May
+ [VR World](https://vrworldevent.com/), late May

## Past events

+ 28 Feb 2018: [VR Diversity Initiative Kick-Off! event](https://www.vrfocus.com/2018/02/vr-diversity-initiative-launches-2018-campaign/). The initiative aims to make the VR industry more inclusive by introducing XR technologies such as VR/AR and MR through free one-day workshops to under-represented groups. It will be the first of 6 VR Diversity Initiative events running in 2018. 28th February 2018, at Here East, [Hobbs Studio](https://hobsstudio.com/). Contact Tom D if you want direct contact info.
+ [Wearable technology show](http://www.wearabletechnologyshow.net/), early March
+ [XR Pitch and demo night](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/xr-pitch-demo-night-tickets-42524910151?mc_cid=c8ef444ab1&mc_eid=eafc0302ed), late March
+ [Future tech now](https://www.virtualrealityshow.co.uk/), early April
+ [Laval Virtual](https://www.laval-virtual.org/),  4-8 April, France
+ [Digital Reality Lab](https://www.curiousdirective.com/whowerelookingfor/) - Theatre in the age of VR, 11-12 April
+ [A MAZE Berlin](http://www.amaze-berlin.de/) - 7th International Games and Playful Media Festival, 25-29 April, Berlin
+ London LASER Labs #1 [playlabs](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/london-laser-labs-1-virtual-imaginaries-part-1-playlab-500pm-615pm-tickets-43038116164) and [talks](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/london-laser-labs-1-virtual-imaginaries-part-2-talks-7pm-9pm-tickets-45102311227), 26 April
+ [In conversation with Jeremy Bailenson & Jeremy Silver](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/in-conversation-with-jeremy-bailenson-jeremy-silver-registration-44450926919), 26 April

# Conferences

# Submission open

+ [KogWis 2018](https://www.tu-darmstadt.de/kogwis2018/kogwis_1/index.en.jsp), submission by 20th April 2018, details [here](http://www.gk-ev.de/?cat=5&lang=en#post-1964).
+ [ISMAR 2018](https://ismar2018.org/), submission by19 March 2018

# Previous

+ [IEEE VR 2018](http://www.ieeevr.org/2018)
